release: 2023-10-25 (#1247)
tigerbeetle/tigerbeetle: CHANGELOG.md

# TigerBeetle Changelog

## 2023-10-25

### Features

- [#1245](https://github.com/tigerbeetle/tigerbeetle/pull/1245)

>   Include docker images into the release.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  Include Docker images in the release.
```

> ### Correctness And Performance

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Safety and Performance
```

Reviewer: In line with our “triple” technical values, one less syllable, and since correctness is more a superset of both safety ("bad things don't happen") and liveness/performance ("good things do happen").

- [#1240](https://github.com/tigerbeetle/tigerbeetle/pull/1240)

>   Increase block size to [reduce latencies](https://open.spotify.com/track/30oZqbcUROFLSru3WcN3bx)

Reviewer: People might follow the "information scent" of "reduce latencies" and expect to find benchmark results. Perhaps move the Easter egg to the last paragraph:

> Speed up secondary index updates by statically distinguishing between insertions and
   updates. [Faster than the speed of night!](https://open.spotify.com/track/30oZqbcUROFLSru3WcN3bx)
```suggestion
  Increase block size to [reduce latencies](https://open.spotify.com/track/30oZqbcUROFLSru3WcN3bx)
```

>   due to compaction work. Today, we use simplistic schedule for compaction, which causes latency

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  due to compaction work. Today, we use a simplistic schedule for compaction, which causes latency
```

>   spikes at the end of the bar. While the proper solution is to implement a smarter compaction

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  spikes at the end of the bar. While the future solution will implement smarter compaction
```

  pacing to distribute the work more evenly, we can get a quick win by tweaking the block and the
  bar size, which naturally evens out latency spikes.

- [#1246](https://github.com/tigerbeetle/tigerbeetle/pull/1246)

  The new release process changed the names of the published artifacts (the version is no longer
  included in the name). This broke our quick start scripts, which we have fixed. Note that we are
  in the process of rolling out the new release process, so some unexpected breakage is expected.

- [#1239](https://github.com/tigerbeetle/tigerbeetle/pull/1239),
  [#1243](https://github.com/tigerbeetle/tigerbeetle/pull/1243)

>   Speed up secondary indexes synchronization by statically distinguishing between insertions and
>   updates.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
   Speed up secondary index maintenance by statically distinguishing between insertions and
   updates. [Faster than the speed of night!](https://open.spotify.com/track/30oZqbcUROFLSru3WcN3bx)
```

### Internals

- [#1234](https://github.com/tigerbeetle/tigerbeetle/pull/1234)

  Simplify superblock layout by using a linked list of blocks for manifest log, so that the
  superblock needs to store only two block references.

>   P.S. Note the PR number!

Reviewer: Nice!
